---
code: GBEBB
title: STAFF CONDUCT WITH STUDENTS
---

The Maine School of Science and Mathematics Board expects all staff
members, including teachers, coaches, counselors, administrators, and
others to maintain the highest professional, moral, and ethical
standards in their conduct with students. For the purposes of this
policy, staff members also include school volunteers.

The purpose of this policy is to ensure that interactions and
relationships between staff members and students are based upon mutual
respect and trust; an understanding of the appropriate boundaries
between adults and students in and outside of the educational setting;
and consistency with the educational mission of the schools.

The Board understands that staff members may interact with and have
friendships with families of students outside of school. This policy is
not intended to prohibit such interactions, provided that professional
boundaries are maintained at all times.

Staff members are expected to be sensitive to the appearance of
impropriety in their conduct with students and are encouraged to discuss
issues with the building principal or their supervisor whenever they are
unsure whether particular conduct may constitute a violation of this
policy.

**Unacceptable Conduct**

Examples of unacceptable conduct by staff members that are expressly
prohibited include but are not limited to the following:

A.  Any type of sexual or inappropriate physical contact with students
    or any other conduct that might be considered harassment under the
    Board's policy on Harassment and Sexual Harassment of Students;

B.  Singling out a particular student or students for personal attention
    and friendship beyond the normal teacher-student relationship;

C.  For non-guidance/counseling staff, encouraging students to confide
    their personal or family problems and/or relationships. If a student
    initiates such discussions, staff members are expected to be
    supportive but to refer the student to appropriate
    guidance/counseling staff. In either case, staff involvement should
    be limited to a direct connection to the student's school
    performance;

D.  Engaging in sexual banter, allusions, jokes, or innuendos with
    students;

E.  Asking a student to keep a secret;

F.  Disclosing personal, sexual, family, employment concerns, or other
    private matters to one or more students;

G.  Addressing students with terms of endearment, pet names, or
    otherwise in an overly familiar manner; and

H.  Permitting students to address you by your first name, nickname or
    otherwise in an overly familiar manner.

I.  "Friending" students or engaging in any other interactions on social
    media or through digital applications (outside of any
    school-approved activity);

J.  Communicating with students on non-school matters through phone
    calls, email, text messages, Messenger or any other digital methods,
    or by notes, letters or any other means (unless the student's parent
    approves of the activity, e. g, in the context of employment or
    participation in community activities);

Before engaging in the following activities, staff members should
consult with the Executive Director or their supervisor, as appropriate:

K.  Being alone with individual students out of the view of others;

L.  Driving students home;

M.  Inviting or allowing students to visit the staff member's home;

N.  Visiting a student's home, unless on official school business that
    is known and agreed to by the parent;

O.  Exchanging personal gifts (beyond the customary student-teacher
    gifts); and/or

P.  Socializing or spending time with students (including but not
    limited to activities such as going out for meals or movies,
    shopping, traveling, and recreational activities) outside of
    school-sponsored events except as participants in organized
    community activities.

**Reporting Violations**

Students and/or their parents/guardians are strongly encouraged to
notify the Executive Director if they believe a teacher or other staff
member may be engaging in conduct that violates this policy.

Staff members must promptly notify the Executive Director if they become
aware of a situation that may constitute a violation of this policy.

**Disciplinary Action**

Staff violations of this policy may result in disciplinary action up to
and including dismissal.

Violations involving sexual or other abuse will also result in referral
to the Department of Human Services and/or law enforcement in accordance
with the Board's policy on Reporting Child Abuse and Neglect.

School Obligation to Report to Maine Department of Education (MDOE)

Any staff member holding a credential should be aware that violation of
this policy may result in revocation or suspension of a certificate if
it endangers the health, safety or welfare of a student.

The Executive Director/designee will notify the MDOE immediately if a
credential holder is disciplined, suspended or terminated as a result of
a "covered investigation" (as defined in 20-A MRSA ยง 13025) in which the
school determined that a student's health, safety or welfare was
endangered.

As soon as practicable, the school will provide to the MDOE any final
report produced in support of the school's decision to discipline,
suspend or terminate the credential holder. The credential holder may
submit a written rebuttal to the report to the MDOE.

The Executive Director/designee will notify the MDOE immediately if a
credential holder who is the subject of a covered investigation leaves
the school's employment for any reason prior to the conclusion of the
covered investigation. \[NOTE: As defined in 20-A MRSA ยง 13025, "covered
investigation" means "an investigation by a school entity into the
conduct of a holder of a credential that a school entity has a
reasonable expectation would affect the credential holder's employment
or contracted service because the alleged conduct involves alcohol,
illegal drugs, physical abuse, emotional abuse, inappropriate contact
between a credential holder and a student, stalking, or similar behavior
that endangers the health, safety or welfare of a student."\]

**Dissemination of Policy**

This policy shall be included in all employee, student and volunteer
handbooks.

Cross Reference:

-   ACAA - Harassment and Sexual Harassment of Students
-   JLF - Reporting Child Abuse and Neglect

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Adopted: August 14, 2020
