---
code: GBO
title: SICK LEAVE
---

MSSM has established a Sick Leave policy for regular full-time and
part-time employees to lessen the financial burden incurred during such
necessary periods of personal or family injury or illness.

Cognizant that employees periodically are absent from work through no
fault of their own, school policy requires that each employee notify
Administration of his/her absence or tardiness, no later than thirty
minutes beyond the scheduled start time. In order to maintain proper
records, non-exempt employees should record their absences and/or
tardiness on their time record each week. Exempt employees should record
their absences on a Monthly Absentee Record and submit the record to
Administration by the fifth day of each month for absences incurred
during the previous month.

One day of sick time (eight hours for hourly employees) per month worked
will accrue for each regular, full-time employee at the completion of
the introductory period. Part-time employees will accrue sick time on a
prorated basis. Employees may not use this benefit during their initial
introductory period. Any unused sick leave will be carried forward into
the next year, not to exceed 120 days (960 hours) accrual. Any sick
leave taken after an employee's sick time has been exhausted will be
without pay. Employees shall not be compensated for sick leave upon
separation from employment.

Sick leave may be used for personal illness or physical incapacity of
such a degree as to render the employee unable to perform the duties of
his/her position or for personal medical or dental appointments. An
employee may be eligible for paid sick leave when there is a sickness or
disability involving a member of the immediate family, which requires
the employee's personal care and attendance, provided that requiring the
employee to report to work would cause a serious hardship on the member
of the immediate family suffering from the illness or disability. The
determination as to whether or not there exists a hardship and amount of
sick leave that may be used for this purpose shall be at the sole
discretion of Administration. Administration may require medical
certification of the need for sick leave any time that they deem
appropriate.

MSSM expects their employees to be at work on a regular basis. Absent
employees place a heavier burden on co-workers and supervisors to meet
job responsibilities. Excessive absenteeism, therefore, is not condoned
and can be a reason for termination. Certain conditions may be reason
for discontinuance of sick time payments such as:

-   Refusal or deliberate avoidance of periodic physical examinations by
    the employee's physician;

-   Willfully and knowingly submitting false information concerning the
    employee's reason for requiring time off; and

-   Refusal or failure to provide the school with adequate documentation
    explaining absences.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: November 29, 2012
| 1^st^ Reading: December 1, 2012
| Adopted: March 16, 2013
