---
code: GCSA-R
title: Procedure for Official Social Media Accounts
---

Maine School of Science and Mathematics (MSSM) recognizes the importance
and benefits of communicating through social media. Social media is a
powerful vehicle through which MSSM may disseminate relevant news to its
community, listen to voices and perceptions of MSSM, connect with our
audiences online, and build goodwill. Social networks and other online
media are great tools for engagement and two-way communication, but
there is the potential for significant risks associated with
inappropriate use. Existing legal responsibilities and school policies
remain in place when MSSM employees use social media.

## Audience for this Procedure

This procedure is intended for all students, faculty and staff who
manage or contribute to official MSSM social media channels, which are
defined as channels that speak on behalf of the school and have some
oversight by MSSM staff. These include, but are not limited to, channels
for schools, academic departments and offices at MSSM. Social media
channels can include blogs, wikis, and social networks (eg. Facebook,
Twitter, YouTube, Instagram, LinkedIn, etc.).

This procedure does not pertain to the personal use of social media by
students, staff and faculty members. See policy on the personal use of
social media for all MSSM employees. (Section G: Personnel - GCSB Social
Media use by School Employees)

## Policy for Official Social Media Accounts at MSSM

This policy applies to all MSSM students, faculty, staff, trustees, and
official school entities. This includes anyone managing or contributing
to a social media channel on behalf of the school, academic department,
office or other official entity at the school. Social media channels can
include blogs, wikis, social networks (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, YouTube,
LinkedIn, etc.), and other media yet to be developed in a dynamic
communications field. This policy only applies to those individuals when
they are posting on such official sites and/or when they otherwise speak
as an authorized representative of the school. It does not apply to
other social media communications and postings that such individuals may
make on personal social media sites so long as such communications do
not indicate that the individual is speaking on behalf of MSSM. (Section
G: Personnel - GCSB Social Media use by School Employees)

## Authorized Users

All official MSSM social media accounts shall be documented and
administered by the Executive Director's designee. Other authorized
users may be assigned to an official MSSM social media account with
prior approval of the Executive Director.

## Confidentiality

Do not post confidential or proprietary information about MSSM, or MSSM
employees, students, affiliates, or alumni that would violate such
persons' rights to privacy under applicable federal and state laws and
regulations such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Family Educational Rights Privacy Act
(FERPA) and school policies. Non-disclosure agreements that prohibit the
school from disclosing information also bind its employees from
disclosing such information.

## Privacy

Do not post anything to an official social media channel that should not
be shared publicly. In particular, do not discuss a situation involving
named or pictured individuals on a social media site without their
knowledge or permission. This does not include photos from the MSSM
Digital Collections and Archives or photos in which individuals are not
clearly recognizable. Keep in mind that for reasons of privacy or
security some students may not want it publicly known that they attend
MSSM. Never share Social Security numbers, addresses or other private
information. Remember that whatever you share may be public for an
indefinite period of time, even if you attempt to modify or delete it.

## Responsibility

Use of social media on an official MSSM channel must be managed
responsibly because it reflects on the school, its faculty, students,
alumni, and employees.

Emergencies and Crisis Situations: In the event of an emergency or
crisis situation, managers of official MSSM accounts are asked to share
only official information provided by or shared in official school
messages. Sharing information found online or not approved by MSSM may
lead to false or confusing information reaching the community and
spreading online. Official accounts are also asked to delete or postpone
any previously scheduled tweets or posts during an emergency or crisis
situation.

Other Users: Other users, including student groups at MSSM, may have
different interests, attitudes and opinions than official MSSM social
media accounts. Before retweeting or sharing, on official school
channels, content posted by others, be careful that such content is
accurate and reflects the school's position.

Correcting Information: If you unintentionally post something online
that is incorrect, correct it visibly and publicly as quickly as
possible. Doing so will earn you respect in the online community.

## Transparency

To both protect the MSSM name and build trust with users, social media
such as blogs, Facebook pages, Twitter feeds, etc. that are established
on behalf of MSSM entities should be explicit regarding the nature of
the relationship of such media to MSSM. Similarly, in keeping with
MSSM's non-profit and public entity status, social media should not be
used for any private business or financial transactions including
revenue from advertising, nor should any staff with administrative
responsibilities realize any personal monetary profit from MSSM-related
social media. Social media may be used for fundraising for the MSSM
Foundation as long as a transaction does not occur on the social media
platform itself without prior approval from the Executive
Director/designee.

Content shared via official MSSM social media channels, as well as pages
or accounts that these channels like or follow, should reflect the
mission and values of MSSM. Official MSSM accounts should refrain from
posting content and liking or following users or pages that reflect
personal interests or that may be in conflict with MSSM's mission or
values. Official MSSM accounts should encourage engagement and
interaction with and among followers; however, they should reserve the
right to remove content that is spam, commercial, obscene, harassing, or
derogatory. If the social network allows for it in the "Bio" or "About"
section, official accounts should post a disclaimer similar to this:
"Third-party posts on this wall do not imply endorsement of that content
by MSSM. We reserve the right to remove content."

## Comment and Response

Many social media sites permit and invite posts and comments by site
users. By permitting use of this feature, the school does not intend to
create a general public forum, and all comments and posts must comply
with this policy. MSSM Terms of Use, as set forth below, must be
displayed by hyperlink.

## MSSM Social Media Terms Of Use

MSSM intends for its use of any social media to relate solely to matters
of MSSM business. A comment or post by a member of the public on any
MSSM social media page is the opinion of the commenter or poster only
and does not imply endorsement of, agreement with, or reflect the
opinions or policies of MSSM. The following posts or comments are
inappropriate and are subject to removal or restriction by MSSM and MSSM
reserves the right to block repeat offenders:

-   Profane, obscene, violent, or pornographic content and/or language;

-   Content that promotes, fosters, or perpetuates discrimination or
    harassment on the basis of race, creed, color, age, religion,
    gender, national origin, sexual orientation or any other category
    protected by local, state or federal law;

-   Defamatory, derogatory or personal attacks on MSSM, MSSM employees,
    students, or community members;

-   Threats to any person or organization or encouragement of illegal
    activity; - Information that tends to compromise the safety or
    security of MSSM employees, the public, public systems or MSSM's
    technology resources;

-   Content that violates any legal ownership interest, such as a
    copyright or trademark;

-   Content containing personal information such as home addresses,
    phone numbers, social security numbers, dates of birth or driver's
    license numbers;

-   Solicitation of commerce, including any advertising or business
    services or products for sale;

-   Content that violates any federal, state or local laws;

-   Comments in support of, opposition to, any political campaigns or
    ballot measures;

-   Comments not related to MSSM posts, business, information,
    announcements, events or comments not related to the original topic,
    including random or unintelligible posts;

-   Comments or posts on topics or issues not within the jurisdictional
    purview of MSSM.

The above list is not necessarily exhaustive and MSSM reserves the right
to remove or restrict any post or comment that violates the purpose or
spirit of this policy.

Any employee authorized to post on MSSM social media pages shall use his
or her best judgment in deciding whether or not to respond to a post or
comment, and shall avoid engaging any user in an argumentative or
offensive manner. Content in any post or response made on behalf of MSSM
shall not specifically refer to any MSSM vendor, supplier, or contractor
without the approval of the Executive Director.

## Use of the MSSM Name

In addition to meeting the requirements set forth in the Guidelines on
the use of MSSM's names and insignias, there are unique challenges
associated with using the MSSM name in social media, such as the
potential need to abbreviate a program or entity name for a Twitter
account.

Use of the MSSM seal or wordmark as a profile photo on any unofficial
Facebook, Twitter, or other social media account is not allowed. Be as
clear as possible when naming your social media accounts, while keeping
in mind character limits. Avoid using acronyms that may not be
universally recognized.

## Copyright

MSSM official accounts must follow the MSSM Policy EGAD when posting
intellectual property, including photos and videos, online.

Materials posted online should be your property, in the public domain,
have a Creative Commons license, or fall under fair use. For all other
instances, you should seek permission from the copyright holder.

Photos from MSSM should only be posted with permission from the Photo's
owner. Where possible, best practice is to include credit/attribution.

## Terms of Service

Official social media accounts at MSSM must follow the Terms of Service
set forth by the social media channels they are using.

## Best Practices

MSSM has created best practices and guidelines for the most popular
social media platforms.

Official channels should follow the best practices for each platform. In
some cases, deviation from best practices is warranted, but failure to
follow best practices to the detriment of the school may result in, but
not be limited to, exclusion from official MSSM social media lists or
platforms, lack of promotion from the main MSSM channels, and possible
deactivation or deletion of their official administrative rights or
offending accounts. Deactivation and deletion will be carried out by
contacting and working with the school's Executive Director or their
designee.

## List of Active Accounts

The Executive Director or their designee will maintain a list of all
active social media accounts, their log-ins and passwords which will be
kept with the IT Department.

## Inactive Accounts

Social media channels at MSSM must be continually updated and monitored.
Accounts that have been inactive for more than one month may be subject
to deactivation or deletion. Deactivation and deletion will be carried
out by contacting and working with the Executive Director or their
designee.

## Accessibility

MSSM is committed to ensuring effective access to communications
materials for all members of the school community, including individuals
with disabilities.

Visually impaired individuals and those with other disabilities may
confront significant barriers when accessing certain information through
social media. MSSM employees will, to all extent possible, follow the
guidelines put out by the W3C (<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG/>).

## Personnel Recruitment

While social media continues to evolve and develop as an effective tool
for advertising jobs at the school and for recruiting candidates, it
does not replace or otherwise eliminate the need to use the school's
existing recruitment systems and processes for posting positions,
collecting applications, conducting background checks, making offers of
employment and other related activities. Offers of employment should
only be extended through existing and accepted processes, and should not
be communicated through social media.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Projected Implemented: May 24, 2018
| 1^st^ Reading: May 24, 2018
| 2^nd^ Reading: September 29, 2018
