---
code: GCSB
title: SOCIAL MEDIA USE BY SCHOOL EMPLOYEES
---

This policy addresses the personal use of social networking sites (e.g.,
Facebook, MySpace, LinkedIn, YouTube, Twitter, Flickr, and other web
tools) by MSSM employees. "Personal use" does not include the use of
social networks between teachers and School administrators for
collaboration in curriculum development and instruction or other
activities conducted in carrying out their job responsibilities.

MSSM respects the rights of School employees to use social media as a
means of communication and self-expression. In doing so, employees
should remember that they are role models and that their social media
conduct may be viewed as representative of MSSM. Employees who use
social media are expected to maintain a professional demeanor at all
times in their postings on social media sites, whether using
School-owned or privately-owned technology.

MSSM employees are prohibited from posting word content, images, videos,
or other displays or communications on social networking sites that
violate FERPA or Board of Trustee policies. Employees should avoid
postings that may be perceived as detrimental to his/her effectiveness
as an employee, or are similarly detrimental to a colleague's ability to
fulfill his/her responsibilities, or which could reasonably be expected
to result in disruption of the instructional program or the operations
of the School.

An employee who is responsible for online content that compromises
his/her effectiveness as an employee or is similarly detrimental to a
colleague's ability to fulfill his/her responsibilities or which result
in disruption of the instructional program or the operations of the
School may be subject to discipline, up to and including termination.

Employees shall maintain appropriate employee-student relationships at
all times. An employee may communicate personally with an MSSM student
through social networking to the extent that the employee and MSSM
student and/or campers have a family relationship or other type of
appropriate relationship originating outside of the school setting. All
other social media communication between employees and MSSM students
and/or campers shall take place only via MSSM provided social media
outlets.

Employees shall not use social networking to discriminate against,
harass, bully, threaten, intimidate, or otherwise discipline students,
other employees, Board of Trustee members, or members of the public.

Employees may not use the School's logo on any social media site without
permission from the Executive Director or represent his/her views as
those of the Board of Trustees. Employees will be held responsible for
the disclosure, whether purposeful or inadvertent, of confidential
student, staff, or other information protected under FERPA, HIPPA, or
Title I sec.Â 400 et seq, or the posting of content of any kind that
violates privacy or protected rights.

Employees who use School technology to engage in social networking have
no expectation of privacy. MSSM reserves the right to monitor employee
use of School technology, including the use of social networking sites.

Employees who are uncertain as to whether their postings to social media
sites are appropriate or are in compliance with this policy or MSSM
guidelines should contact the Executive Director.

Employees whose social network usage is not currently in compliance with
this policy shall take action to rectify the matter immediately.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: April 28, 2016
| 1^st^ Reading: May 27, 2016
| 2^nd^ Reading:
