---
code: JFAA
title: RESIDENCY, TUITION, AND ROOM AND BOARD
---

## In-State Tuition and Room & Board

Maine students who meet the guidelines in 20-A MRSA §8202(2)(A)
(i.e. "in-state students") shall not be charged tuition to attend the
School. Students or their parents or guardians shall be responsible to
pay for Room and Board (R&B) expenses and other fees, as determined by
the Board of Trustees annually. In case of financial need to meet the
room and board expenses and fees, the State shall pay the School the
difference between the cost and the student's or student's parents or
guardians ability to pay that cost. (Ref: Financial Aid Application
Process)

## Other Students Tuition and Room & Board

Students who are not residents of Maine, such as out-of-state and
foreign students, or students seeking post-graduate education regardless
of residency, may attend the School on a space-available basis.
Non-resident and postgraduate students or their families shall pay the
tuition, room and board, and other fees as determined by the Board of
Trustees annually. State appropriated funds shall not be used to provide
financial aid to these students.

## Residency Requirements

In order to qualify for in-state student status, students must have
resided in the state of Maine with a parent, other relative or guardian
for six (6) months immediately preceding application to the School.

## Residency Determination

If the residency of an applicant is indeterminate, the School's Chief
Operating Officer shall review the facts and issue a determination. The
determination shall be based on a two-part test:

1.  Has the student met the requirement of being a resident six (6)
    months immediately preceding application to the School?

2.  Is it the intent of the student to remain a resident of the State of
    Maine?

## Test 1:

In order to meet the requirement, the student must have resided at a
physical address within the State of Maine immediately preceding
application to the School. The physical address must meet the criteria
of being the student's "home" and the place "to live for a permanent or
extended time" or "the place, when you are away, you intend to return
to..." The ownership of real property and/or payment of property or
other taxes does not, in itself, establish residence and shall not be a
factor into the determination of residence.

## Test 2:

Does the student intend to maintain residency during his enrollment?

## Military Families

For children of current or recently retired military personnel, DD Form
214 may be used to establish residency. The form shall be submitted with
the application if members of the armed services wish to be considered
for residency status. The "short form" is acceptable.

Legal Reference:

-   20-A MRSA §8202(2)(A)

Cross Reference:

-   Financial Aid Application Process

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| 1^st^ Reading: March 16^th^, 2013
| Adopted: May 24th, 2013
