---
code: JJA-R
title: STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS PROCEDURE
---

## PREAMBLE

MSSM is a residential school, allowing students many opportunities to
work with faculty and staff to plan, direct, implement, and evaluate
their organizations' activities. This procedure gives guidelines for the
creation, support, and management of all student organizations.

A.  **ESTABLISHMENT OF STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS**

    In order to create a new organization, generally the following steps
    shall take place:

    1.  Student shall complete the Student Club Application and seek an
        advisor.

    2.  Student shall seek the approval of the Dean of Students.

    3.  The officers of the prospective club shall develop a budget.

    4.  The Dean of Students shall submit the approved application and
        any supporting documents to the Executive Director for funding.

    5.  Once funded by the Executive Director, documentation shall be
        forwarded to the Business Office, advisor, and treasurer.

B.  **Maintenance of the Organization**

    A viable organization shall be evidenced by the following:

    1.  Regular appointment of officers

    2.  Regular participation by the advisor

    3.  Regular student participation

    4.  Adherence to financial procedures and responsibilities

C.  **Defunct organizations**

    Any organization which fails to meet the criteria in section B may
    be declared defunct by the Dean of Students after due warning and
    consultation. Once an organization has been declared defunct, all
    assets shall be returned to the Executive Director's seed fund.

D.  **FUNDING**

    1.  New organizations

        a.  MSSM has a special seed fund available to support the
            creation of new student organizations.

    2.  Ongoing organizations

        a.  It is expected that student organizations shall raise funds
            for the perpetuation of the organization.

        b.  Funds generated by the organization shall remain the
            exclusive asset of the organization so long as the
            organization shall continue.

        c.  All funds accumulated in an account of a specific
            organization during a specific fiscal year shall be carried
            over to the following fiscal year unless the organization
            becomes defunct.

E.  **FUNDRAISING**

    Organizations may engage in fundraising activities to provide funds
    to meet their objectives.

    1.  Requests for organizations to conduct fundraising events shall
        be approved in writing by the advisor and the Dean of Students.

    2.  The original approved fundraiser form shall be filed with the
        Business Office.

    3.  Ticket sales for raffles, events, and etc., cannot be limited by
        minimum quotas.

    4.  The officers of the organization sponsoring a fundraising
        activity are not allowed to win a contest or prize.

    5.  The treasurer shall complete and submit to the Dean of Students
        a reconciliation at the end of each fundraiser. The report shall
        show details of cash receipts and expenditures, and the profit
        or loss for the fundraiser.

    6.  Student organizations may advertise their fundraising activities
        through announcements, posters, flyers, the activities board, a
        school newsletter, or other approved publicity medium. The
        advisor shall approve advertising before being displayed. The
        Executive Director shall pre-approve advertising in all external
        public media (e.g. radio, newspapers, Internet, etc.)

    7.  Funds generated by an organization shall be used to offset costs
        incurred by the organization, first, before students are
        authorized to spend any proceeds.

    8.  Funds raised for a specific purpose are used solely for the
        stated purpose as indicated by the organization in the
        fundraiser application.

    9.  Special request for the use of organization funds in a manner
        that is not consistent with the original fundraising intent must
        be submitted in writing to the Dean of Students for prior
        approval.

    10. The Executive Director, at his sole discretion, may also use the
        seed fund to fund ongoing organizations.

    11. Organization members shall not personally profit from the
        revenue generated from fundraising events.

F.  **ACCOUNTABILITY**

    MSSM, through the Business Office, retains the fiduciary
    responsibility for the organizations' funds. Through proper guidance
    by the advisor and Dean of Students, the organizations' members can
    develop proper leadership, management, and financial skills that
    will aid in their understanding of the key concepts used in managing
    an organization. The organization's treasurer is responsible for
    managing the financial affairs of the organization. The Business
    Office shall be responsible for maintaining the financial records of
    the organization for audit purposes. The organization's treasurer is
    responsible for ensuring that receipts and disbursements are
    properly accounted for through the Business Office.

    An annual budget shall be prepared for each school year by the
    organization officers under the guidance of the advisor by October
    1^st^. The budget shall include expected sources of revenues,
    expenditures, and fund balance for the school year. All budgets
    require approval from the Dean of Students. The treasurer shall send
    a copy to the Business Office after approval.

    1.  Transaction Recording

        Bookkeeping and recording of transactions are completed in the
        Business Office. Organization account balances are verified by
        sending a statement of cash receipts and disbursements summary
        to the advisor and treasurer every month for review and
        reconciliation. Errors detected on the statement shall be
        resolved immediately with the Business Office. The day-to-day
        procedures for recording organization transactions are as
        follows:

        a.  Receipts of cash and checks shall be recorded in the
            accounting system on the actual day of receipt showing, at
            minimum, date, source, purpose, and amount.

        b.  Payments shall be recorded in the accounting system on the
            actual day of payment showing date, vendor, check number,
            purpose, and amount.

        c.  Organization funds transferred to another fund shall be
            recorded as a journal entry in the accounting system.

        d.  Monthly bank reconciliation shall be performed by the
            Business Office, and

        e.  Before June 15^th^ of the school year, the Dean of Students
            shall meet with the Business Office to transfer organization
            records and all supporting documentation in preparation for
            the School's year-end audit.

    2.  Cash Receipts

        a.  Collections shall be substantiated by pre-numbered receipts
            (triplicate form), pre-numbered raffle tickets, or tally
            sheet. Pre-numbered receipts or tally sheet must be properly
            completed and must identify the specific organization from
            which funds were received, date funds were received, and the
            person receiving the funds must sign the receipt or tally
            sheet.

        b.  The treasurer shall maintain a record of collections from
            fundraising. Unsold raffle tickets shall be available for
            review by the advisor.

        c.  The treasurer shall turn over funds to the Business Office
            the soonest business day to the date of collection (within
            24 hours, if possible).

        d.  The treasurer and advisor shall authorize the use of
            organization funds. Expenses shall be paid by check or petty
            cash from the Business Office with proper documentation to
            substantiate the payment. Payment for expenses shall not be
            made from cash collections or receipts.

        e.  Deposits shall be substantiated by deposit slips from the
            bank and receipts or tally slips from the organization's
            treasurer.

        f.  All checks received shall be endorsed, "for deposit only"
            immediately upon receipt. It is recommended that each
            treasurer purchase a rubber stamp for this purpose.

        g.  The cash receipt ledger shall be maintained and all
            transactions must be recorded in a timely manner by the
            organization's treasurer.

        h.  Interest earned in non-operational accounts shall be entered
            into the seed fund by the Business Office.

    3.  PURCHASING

        a.  Before services are rendered or products are purchased,
            independent contractors and consultants shall provide an IRS
            Form W-9 to the Business Office.

        b.  A non-ops purchase order completed by the requisitioner and
            approved by the advisor (and the Dean of Students if over
            \$500.00) shall support all commitments for goods and
            services.

        c.  The treasurer or designee shall verify receipt of the items
            or services rendered and turn in all packing slips to the
            Business Office. If there are no packing slips, the
            treasurer or designee shall notify the Business Office by
            email to verify receipt of the order.

        d.  Discrepancies between the purchase order and items received
            shall be brought to the attention of the Business Office and
            be resolved prior to payment.

        e.  MSSM is a tax-exempt organization. A state tax-exempt form
            is available from the Business Office and shall accompany
            all purchases.

    4.  Cash Disbursements from the Business Office

        a.  All disbursements for goods or services shall be made by
            check to vendor(s) or through petty cash by the Business
            Office.

        b.  Checks shall not be made payable to an employee or
            organization member. The only exception to this rule is
            reimbursement for advisor-approved purchases with limited
            occurrences.

        c.  The Business Office and treasurer shall record disbursements
            in a timely manner.

        d.  No check shall be made payable to CASH.

        e.  Checks shall be signed by the authorized person.

        f.  All expenditures incurred for a particular organization
            shall be expended from the account in which the organization
            funds were deposited.

        All disbursements must have the following supporting
        documentation:

        a.  Vendor's original invoice or register receipt

        b.  Purchase order

        c.  Letters of correspondence, contracts, purchase orders,
            packing slips, and other supporting documents shall be
            maintained in the Business Office.

G.  **AUDITING PROCEDURES**

    The Chief Operating Officer or designee will conduct self-audit
    reviews to ensure that the organization and Business Office are
    following administrative policies and directives in their daily
    operations, and to determine the accuracy and completeness of school
    activity accounting and financial records. MSSM's external auditors
    shall render an opinion on the financial statements regarding MSSM's
    fiduciary responsibilities.

Cross Reference:

-   JJA - Student Organizations
-   JJA-R2 - Student Organizations Procedure Responsibilities

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: May 1, 2014
| 1^st^ Reading: May 23, 2014
| 2^nd^ Reading: Sept. 6, 2014
