---
code: JJIF
title: CONCUSSIONS AND OTHER HEAD INJURIES
---

Concussions and other head injuries are potentially serious and may
result in significant brain damage and/or death if not recognized and
managed properly. This policy promotes the safety of students
participating in School-sponsored activities including interscholastic
sports.

## TRAINING

By June 30 of each year, the Concussion Management Team will identify
the School-sponsored activities that pose a risk of concussion or other
head injury. A list of these activities will be distributed to School
administrators, staff, and coaches.

All coaches and staff supervising the listed activities must undergo
training in the identification and management of concussive and other
head injuries prior to assuming their responsibilities. The training
shall be consistent with such protocols as may be identified or
developed by the Maine Department of Education (DOE).

Staff shall undergo refresher training every two years or when protocols
have been revised.

## STUDENT AND PARENT INFORMATION

Prior to the beginning of each School year, students and parents of
students who will be participating in School-sponsored activities will
be provided information regarding the following:

A.  The risk of concussion and other head injuries and the dangers
    associated with continuing to participate when a concussion or other
    head injury is suspected;

B.  The signs and symptoms of concussion and other head injuries; and

C.  The School's protocols for 1) removal from the activity when a
    student is suspected of having sustained a concussion or other head
    injury, 2) evaluation, and 3) return to participation in the
    activity.

The student and his/her parent(s) must sign a statement acknowledging
that they have received and read this information before the student
will be allowed to participate in any School-sponsored activity.

## MANAGEMENT OF CONCUSSIVE AND OTHER HEAD INJURIES

It is the responsibility of the supervisor of the activity to act in
accordance with this policy when a student appears to be exhibiting
signs, symptoms, and/or behaviors associated with a concussion or other
head injury.

Any student suspected of having sustained a concussion or other head
injury during a School-sponsored activity including but not limited to
competition, practice, or scrimmage, must be removed from the activity
immediately. The student and his/her parent(s) shall be informed of the
need for an evaluation for brain injury before the student will be
allowed to return to the activity. Any student who is suspected of
having sustained a concussion or other head injury shall be prohibited
from further participation in School-sponsored activities until he/she
has been evaluated and received written medical clearance to do so from
a licensed health care provider who is a member of the Concussion
Management Team. More than one evaluation may be necessary before the
student is cleared for full participation.

No student will be permitted to return to the activity or to participate
in any other School-sponsored athletic activity on the day of the
suspected concussion.

If at any time after returning to activity signs or symptoms of a
concussion are observed, the student shall be removed from the activity
and referred to the Concussion Management Team.

## COGNITIVE CONSIDERATIONS

School personnel should be alert to cognitive and academic issues that
may be experienced by students who have suffered a concussion or other
head injury, including but not limited to difficulty with concentration,
organization, long-and-short term memory, and sensitivity to bright
lights and sounds. They shall also accommodate a gradual return to full
participation in academic activities as appropriate, based on the
recommendations of the student's health care provider and consistent
with the student's 504 plan, if one exists.

## CONCUSSION MANAGEMENT TEAM

The Executive Director shall appoint a Concussion Management Team that
includes a School administrator to be responsible, under the
administrative supervision of the Executive Director, to make
recommendations related to implementation of this policy. The Concussion
Management Team will include the Executive Director and School nurse. It
may also include the School physician, trainers, and such other School
personnel or consultants as the Executive Director deems appropriate.

Legal Reference:

-   MRSA 20-A ยง 254(17)
-   MRSA 20-A ยง 1001(19)

Cross Reference:

-   JJIF-E - CONCUSSION INFORMATION SHEET

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: March 29, 2016
| Revised from December 2, 2015
| 1^St^ Reading: May 27, 2016
| 2^nd^ Reading: October 1, 2016
