---
code: JRA
title: STUDENT EDUCATIONAL RECORDS
---

The MSSM Board of Trustees will provide for the confidentiality of all
student education records that are maintained by MSSM as required by
both Maine law and the Federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA).

MSSM shall provide annual notification to the parents of students
currently in attendance and to eligible students (18 years old or older)
of their rights in relation to the student education records being
maintained by MSSM.

MSSM designates the following information about students as directory
information: name, the student's participation in officially recognized
activities and sports, height and weight of student athletes and grade
level in School of students in extracurricular activities, date of
attendance at MSSM Schools, and honors and awards received.

MSSM may disclose directory information about students in attendance if
it has given the notification required by FERPA to parents of the
students and to eligible students and has not received timely written
notice refusing permission to designate some or all of the types of
information about a student as directory information. Under Maine law,
MSSM shall not publish on the Internet without written parental consent
any information, whether directory or otherwise, that identifies a
student; including but not limited to the student's full name,
photograph, personal biography, e-mail address, home address, date of
birth, social security number, and parents' names.

MSSM is required by the Commissioner to collect and report student
social security numbers as a way to provide Schools with data about the
long-term effectiveness of teaching and programs from early childhood
through to college and the work force. MSSM is requesting parents to
provide written consent to use their child's social security number for
these purposes. Parents are not required to consent to the release of
their child's social security number. If a parent does not allow the
social security number for a student to be released, the child will
still be enrolled in the School. Every student has a right to a public
education, regardless of whether or not a social security number is
provided. No child's social security number may be used for longitudinal
data purposes without prior written parental consent. When a student
turns 18 years of age, the written consent must be obtained from the
student and the rights previously accorded to the parent are accorded to
the student.

The Superintendent of MSSM shall develop and promulgate procedures for
implementing this policy, including a description of the access rights
of parents, students, and educational personnel to records and the
confidentiality rights of parents and students. Such procedures may be
amended from time to time, as necessary.

A copy of the policy and procedure shall be available in each building
and the MSSM website. Parents shall be notified annually of the policy
and procedure.

Legal Reference:

-   20 USC ยง 1232g
-   34 CFR Part 99
-   20-A MRSA ยง 6001
-   Ch. 101 ยง 15 (Me. Dept. of Ed. Rule)
-   Ch. 125 ยง 12.01(E) (Me. Dept. of Ed. Rule)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| 1^st^ Reading: September 11, 2010
| Adopted: May 27, 2011
