---
code: DD
title: GRANTS
---

The Board of Trustees encourages the Executive Director to pursue
federal, state, foundation, corporate and other grants for the support
of the School and the enhancement of educational opportunities. The
Executive Director is expected to be alert to potential sources of grant
funding and to make recommendations for Board action. All grant
applications or proposals, except for applications to the MSSM
Foundation, must be approved by the Board prior to submission to the
funding agency.

It is the policy of the Board to comply with all federal, state, and
foundation requirements that may be a condition of receipt of grant
funds.

When a grant application or proposal is presented to the Board for its
approval, the Executive Director/designee will advise the Board as to
whether additional staff will be needed to support the implementation of
the grant and to maintain records that may be required by the granting
entity; the availability of resources if matching funds are required;
whether additional resources will be needed for continuation of the
program when the grant expires; and measures that will be used to
evaluate whether the objectives of the grant are being achieved.

All grant funds received will be deposited into School accounts.
Applicable federal and state regulations, Board policies, and School
administrative procedures regarding purchasing, contracting,
expenditures, and accounting will be followed in the administration and
monitoring of grant funds. Staff positions created through grant funding
will be filled pursuant to Board policy.

The Executive Director/designee may establish additional procedures for
grant applicants, coordination of grant proposals, and for oversight and
administration of grants received.

The Executive Director/designee will keep accurate records of all grant
expenditures and will report annually on all grants received.

## MSSM Foundation Grants

All grant applications submitted to the MSSM Foundation by MSSM
employees must be approved and signed by MSSM's Executive Director or
his/her designee.

All grant applications submitted on behalf of MSSM or any of its
employees to organizations other than the MSSM Foundation must be
approved by MSSM's Executive Director or his/her designee. Completed
applications must be submitted to the Executive Director at least
fifteen business days prior to the application deadline in order to give
the Executive Director or his/her designee time to review and approve
the application.

All grant applications submitted on behalf of the MSSM Foundation must
be approved by the MSSM Foundation's President and/or CEO or his/her
designee. Completed applications must be submitted to the President
and/or CEO at least fifteen business days prior to the application
deadline in order to give him/her time to review and approve the
application.

## Teacher Classroom Grants ("mini-grants")

Individual teachers may investigate eligibility requirements for
foundation, corporate, and other grants that will benefit a single
classroom. The Executive Director is authorized to approve
applications/proposals for such "mini-grants" as long as they do not
exceed \$5,000, require matching or non-budgeted funds, or impose a
continuing obligation.

All mini-grants/classroom grant funds will be deposited into School
accounts In the Business Office.

Awards of mini-grants/classroom grants will be reported to the Executive
Director. The Executive Director will report such awards to the Board of
Trustees.

Cross Reference:

-   KCD - Public Gifts/Donations to the Schools

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| 1^st^ Reading: March 16, 2013
| Adopted: May 24, 2013
