---
code: AACC-R
title: TRAFTON HOUSING PROCEDURE
---

Whereas the administration of the Maine School of Science and
Mathematics desires to build a close sense of community between its
students, faculty, staff, and the Limestone area, and; Whereas proximity
to the School is essential in developing that sense of community; the
Administration of the School is implementing the following practice:

## Occupancy

Occupancy of the units on Trafton will be offered to employees of MSSM
on a first-come, first-served basis. A waiting list is maintained by the
Business Office of the School. However, the Executive Director shall
retain the right to make a final decision on occupancy.

For the purpose of occupancy, "employee" and "occupant" shall be defined
as any employee (part-time or full-time), their immediate family
(spouse, children, step-children, parents, grandchildren and step
grandchildren, life partner.)

Multiple-employee occupancy (e.g. roommates) is acceptable if agreeable
to all parties involved. Occupancy may continue as long as the occupant
remains an employee of the School. Once employment status changes, the
occupant will have thirty days to vacate the premises.

## Pets

The occupant may have pets on the premises. The pets must be under the
control of the owner at all times. The keeping of livestock (as defined
by Title 17 §1011), dangerous, or wild animals is not permitted. The
determination of whether an animal is "dangerous" or "wild" shall be
made by the Executive Director, whose decision shall be final. The
occupant shall be responsible for any damage caused by their pets.

## Permitted Activities

The intent of Trafton housing is to be residential for the use of our
staff and faculty. The premises may not be used for any
commercial/business purposes unless specifically approved by the
Executive Director and then may not be used for enterprises which
require access by the general public. Use of the premises for any
illegal activity (whether convicted or not) is grounds for immediate
eviction at the discretion of the Executive Director.

## Drugs and Alcohol

Occupants and their guests are permitted to have and consume alcohol,
over-the-counter drugs, and drugs prescribed by a licensed physician as
long as the use and/or possession of said drugs or alcohol does not
violate local ordinances, state, or federal laws. The use of tobacco
products inside a Trafton residence is prohibited

## Firearms

Occupants and their guests may possess legal (and legally obtained)
firearms in their residences provided that they are locked (by trigger
locks or in a safe).

## Boundary

The possession of legal drugs, alcohol, or firearms by any person is
restricted to the area of the Trafton site delineated in the deed for
the property. The possession or use of alcohol or firearms continues to
be strictly prohibited on the property which encompasses the Dormitory
or the School as described in the most recent deeds.

## Reasonable Care

It shall be the responsibility of the occupant to maintain the premises
in an as-received condition during the entire occupancy of the premises.
Since the premises are free of any rent, the occupant will be
responsible for minor repairs and painting. Major maintenance (not
including repairs required or caused by the negligence of the occupant)
will be the responsibility of the School. The School shall also furnish
the paint, if requested. No accumulation of garbage, vehicles, etc. is
permitted anywhere on the premises. All repairs required due to the
negligence or direct action of the employee/occupant shall be the
responsibility of the employee.

## Utilities

It shall be the occupant's responsibility to maintain all utilities
including heat, sewer, water, entertainment services, garbage pick-up,
and telecommunication services. Any and all utility costs must be paid
when vacating the premises. The final paycheck of an employee may be
withheld until such payments are made. In particular, heat shall be
maintained in the premises at a sufficient temperature to prevent freeze
damage to the structure and plumbing at all times between October 1 and
May 31 of each heating season. Fuel tanks will be topped off by MSSM
when the unit is turned over to an occupant and the tanks will be topped
off by the occupant when vacating the premises.

## Insurance

The School shall maintain insurance on the structures and contents owned
by the School (e.g. appliances.) The occupant shall provide insurance
for all contents owned by the occupant.

## Access

On receipt of reasonable notice (not to exceed seven calendar days), the
occupant shall permit access to the School's administration and/or
maintenance staff for the purpose of conducting inspections and
maintenance.

## Grounds Maintenance

The School will maintain the grounds of the premises as time and man
power permit. Such maintenance is limited to mowing of lawns and snow
removal by plow. The occupant shall be responsible for snow removal on
walkways and areas inaccessible to the plow. No maintenance will be
provided for flower beds and gardens. Flower beds and gardens are
allowed, but at the sole expense of the occupant.

## Agreement

A housing contract shall be signed by each occupant at the time of
occupancy. The term of the contract shall expire on June 30 of each
year. Renewal shall be year-to-year as long as occupant remains an
employee of the School and complies with the terms of the housing
contract. Under a breach of the housing contract, it may be unilaterally
terminated by the School upon 30 days written notice to the employee by
certified mail to the last known address of the employee.

Appendix:

-   AACC-R1 - Residential Use Agreement Form

Cross Reference:

-   GBEC - Drug Free Workplace

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: December 5, 2013
| Revised from February 9, 2012
| 1^st^ Reading: March 15, 2014
| Revised from December 8, 2012
| 2^nd^ Reading: May 23, 2014
| Revised from March 16, 2013
