---
code: ACAD
title: HAZING
---

Maine law defines injurious hazing as any action or situation, including
harassing behavior that recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental
or physical health of any school personnel or a student enrolled in a
public school.

Injurious hazing also includes any activity expected of a student as a
condition of joining or maintaining membership in a group that
humiliates, degrades, abuses or endangers a student, regardless of the
student's willingness to participate in the activity.

Injurious hazing activities of any type, either on or off school
property, by any student, staff member, group or organization affiliated
with this school, are inconsistent with the educational process and
shall be prohibited at all times.

"Harassing behavior" includes acts of intimidation and any other conduct
that recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or physical health
of a student or staff member.

"Acts of intimidation" include extortion, menacing, direct or indirect
threats of violence, incidents of violence, bullying, statements or
taunting of a malicious and/or derogatory nature that recklessly or
intentionally endanger the mental or physical health of another person,
and property damage or theft.

No administrator, faculty member, or other employee of the school shall
encourage, permit, condone, or tolerate injurious hazing activities. No
student, including leaders of any student organizations or
school-sponsored teams, shall plan, encourage, or engage in injurious
hazing activities.

Students who violate this policy may be subject to disciplinary action
which may include suspension, expulsion, or other appropriate measures.
Administrators, professional staff, and all other employees who violate
this policy may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including
dismissal.

In the case of an organization affiliated with this school that
authorizes hazing, penalties may include rescission of permission for
that organization to operate on school property or to receive any other
benefit of affiliation with the school.

Persons not associated with this school who fail to abide by this policy
may be subject to ejection from school property and/or other measures as
may be available under the law. These penalties shall be in addition to
any civil or criminal penalties to which the violator or organization
may be subject.

The Executive Director/designee shall be responsible for administering
this policy. In the event that an individual or organization disagrees
with an action---or lack of action---on the part of the Executive
Director/designee as he/she carries out the provisions of this policy,
that individual or organization may appeal to the Board. The ruling of
the Board with respect to the provisions of this policy shall be final.

This right to appeal does not apply to student suspensions of 10 days or
less or to matters submitted to grievance procedures under applicable
collective bargaining agreements. A copy of this policy shall be
included in all school, parent, and employee handbooks or otherwise
distributed to all school employees and students.

Legal Reference:

-   20-A MRSA ยง 6553

Cross Reference:

-   ACAA - Harassment and Sexual Harassment of Students
-   ACAB - Harassment and Sexual Harassment of Employees
-   JICIA - Weapons, Violence and School Safety

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Adopted: May 27, 2011
| Revised: August 14, 2020
