---
code: ADAA
title: SCHOOL COMMITMENT TO STANDARDS FOR ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE
  BEHAVIOR
---

The Board of Trustees believes that promoting ethical and responsible
behavior is an essential part of the School's educational mission. The
Board of Trustees recognizes that ethics, constructive attitudes,
responsible behavior, and "character" are important if a student is to
leave School as a responsible and involved citizen. The Board of
Trustees also recognizes that Maine law requires the adoption of a
student code of conduct consistent with statewide standards for student
behavior developed by the Commissioner of the Department of Education in
compliance with 20-A MRSA § 254(11).

The Board of Trustees seeks to create and maintain a School climate in
which ethical and responsible behavior can flourish. The Board of
Trustees believes that instilling a sense of ethics and responsibility
in students requires setting positive expectations for student behavior
as well as establishing disciplinary consequences for behavior that
violates Board of Trustees policy or School rules. Further, the Board of
Trustees believes that in order to teach ethical and responsible
behavior, adults who interact with students must strive to model and
reinforce ethical and responsible behavior. To that end, the Board of
Trustees supports an active partnership between the School and parents.

Recognizing that collaboratively identified core values are the
foundation for a School culture that encourages and reinforces ethical
and responsible student behavior, the Board of Trustees is committed to
the establishment and implementation of a process for identifying shared
values and setting and enforcing standards for behavior, including
prescription of consequences for unacceptable behavior. The process for
identifying such shared values will invite and include the participation
of Board of Trustees members, School administrators, staff, parents,
students, and the community. Core values will be reviewed periodically,
with opportunity for public participation. The Board of Trustees will
direct the Executive Director or designee to develop a process to assess
School progress toward achievement of an ethical and responsible School
culture.

Following the identification of core values, the Board of Trustees, with
input from administrators, staff, parents, students, and members of the
community, will adopt a Student Code of Conduct consistent with
statewide standards for student behavior that shall, as required by law:

The statewide standards are the "core values" identified in the report
of the Commission for Ethical and Responsible Student Behavior, Taking
Responsibility: Standards for Ethical and Responsible Behavior in Maine
Schools and Communities. The core values are: Respect, Honesty,
Compassion, Fairness, Responsibility and Courage. The Code of Conduct
must be "consistent with," not identical to, the statewide standards
developed under 20 M.R.S.A. § 254(11). This provides an opportunity for
communities to identify their own core values and articulate what they
"look like" when applied to behavior. The core values serve as a basis
for School system expectations for student conduct.

A.  Define unacceptable student behavior;

B.  Establish standards of student responsibility for behavior;

C.  Prescribe consequences for violation of the Student Code of Conduct,
    including first-time violations, when appropriate;

D.  Describe appropriate procedures for referring students in need of
    special services to those services;

E.  Establish criteria to determine when further assessment of a current
    Individual Education Plan (IEP) is necessary, based on removal of
    the student from class;

F.  Establish policies and procedures concerning the removal of
    disruptive or violent students from a classroom or a School bus, as
    well as student disciplinary and placement decisions, when
    appropriate; and

G.  Establish guidelines and criteria concerning the appropriate
    circumstances when the Executive Director may provide information to
    the local police or other appropriate law enforcement authorities
    regarding an offense that involves violence or criminal activity
    committed by any person on School grounds or other School property.

H.  The Student Code of Conduct will be reviewed periodically by the
    Board of Trustees, with input from administrators, staff, parents,
    students, and members from the community. Students, parents, staff,
    and the community will be informed of the Student Code of Conduct
    through handbooks and/or other means selected by the Executive
    Director.

## ETHICS AND CURRICULUM

The Board of Trustees encourages integration of ethics into content
areas of the curriculum, as appropriate. The Board of Trustees also
encourages School administrators and staff to provide students with
meaningful opportunities to apply values and ethical and responsible
behavior through activities such as problem solving, service learning,
peer mediation, and student government/leadership development.

Legal Reference:

-   20-A MRSA §§254, 1001(15)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: October 3, 2013
| 1^st^ Reading: December 7, 2013
| Revised from September 11, 2010
| 2^nd^ Reading: March 15, 2014
