---
title: Organization
---

**Section 101. Membership.** (20-A MRSA ยง204) In appointing members to
the Board of Trustees, the Governor shall give proper consideration to
achieving statewide geographical representation and gender equity. The
board of trustees shall consist of 17 voting members and 2 non-voting
members as follows:

A.  The Commissioner of Education or the commissioner's designee;

B.  The Chancellor of the University of Maine System or the chancellor's
    designee;

C.  A board member of the Regional School Unit in which the school is
    located, from the community in which the school is located, or the
    board member's designee;

D.  One member, who is a citizen of Limestone and has an active interest
    in education, appointed by the Governor;

E.  Three members who are full-time teachers, one of whom is a teacher
    at the school who is a nonvoting member and is annually elected by
    members of the school's faculty and 2 of whom are teachers in the
    State representing different geographic regions of the State,
    appointed by the Governor. Both full-time and part-time teachers at
    the school may vote in the election of a faculty member to serve on
    the board, and the election shall be by secret ballot;

F.  Ten members of the general public appointed by the Governor, at
    least 4 of whom must be scientists, engineers, or mathematicians
    employed within the business or industrial community and one of whom
    must be a graduate of the Maine School of Science and Mathematics
    and one of whom must be a parent of a student or of a graduate who
    graduated within 5 years prior to the parent's appointment to the
    board of trustees. All appointments under this paragraph are subject
    to review by the joint standing committee of the Legislature having
    jurisdiction over education matters and subject to the confirmation
    by the Legislature;

G.  One student member who is a voting member and has been elected as
    the presiding officer of the student body. The MSSM Student Senate
    is the official organization that represents the student body. The
    student member may not participate as a board member in executive
    sessions and may not vote in a public proceeding on a matter that
    was discussed or considered during executive session; and

H.  The executive director of the school, who serves as the clerk of the
    board of trustees and is a nonvoting member.

The terms of the members of the Board of Trustees who are appointed by
the Governor are for 4-years unless otherwise designated, with a limit
of two consecutive terms (making a total of 8 years); after a year off,
a board member may be nominated to return. The terms of the 2 teachers
appointed by the Governor are staggered. The terms of the 10 members of
the general public are staggered. Members may be appointed for
consecutive terms.

**Section 102. Officers.** (20-A. MRSA ยง204) The Board of Trustees shall
choose a Chair and Vice-Chair from among its members annually. The Chair
and Vice-Chair shall be elected by secret ballot. This election is a
paper ballot that takes place during the May meeting with the transition
of chairmanship happening at the adjournment of the meeting. The ballots
will be held by the Clerk until the adjournment of the Fall meeting.
Nominations will be accepted by the Governance Committee after the March
meeting.

The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees, shall
have the right to vote on all questions, shall appoint board members to
serve on and/or chair committees, may appoint non-board members to serve
on and/or chair ad-hoc committees, and shall have such other powers and
duties as the Board may prescribe from time-to-time.

Clerk (20-A MRSA ยง204) The Executive Director of the School serves as
the clerk of the Board of Trustees and is a nonvoting member.

The clerk shall have custody of the seal of the School and shall attest
to and affix said seal to such documents as required in the business of
the school including but not limited to deeds, bonds, mortgages,
agreements, contracts, diplomas, transcripts, resolutions, certificates,
minutes; and bylaws issued pursuant to the authority of the School.

The clerk shall give proper notice of all meetings of the Board of
Trustees and shall keep a record of the appointment of all committees
and the Board of Trustees and members of the administrative and teaching
staffs. He/she shall keep a record of the minutes of all Board of
Trustees and each of its committees.

The clerk may elect an assistant clerk from among the staff of the
School. The clerk may delegate to the assistant clerk various
responsibilities of their position.

Treasurer (20-A MRSA ยง208) The Board of Trustees may appoint a
treasurer, who need not be a member of the Board of Trustees. The
Treasurer may have custody of the funds of MSSM, making payments as the
Board of Trustees may authorize and, with the approval of the Board of
Trustees, he/she may delegate any of the duties to such person(s) acting
under the supervision of the Treasurer as the Board of Trustees may
approve. The Treasurer shall see that records are so made and Kept as to
give a full and accurate history of the financial transactions of MSSM
and so as to present, accurately, its financial condition and shall
render such periodic and other reports as the Board of Trustees may
require. The Treasurer with the authorization of the Board of Trustees
shall have authority to endorse for transfer in the name and on behalf
of MSSM bonds and other securities and evidence of indebtedness standing
in the name of MSSM. The Treasurer, at the expense of MSSM, shall give
such bond for the faithful performance of their duties as the Board of
Trustees may require.

**Section 103. Committees.** The following shall be the standing
committees of the Board of Trustees: Program Committee, Executive
Committee, Advancement Committee, Finance Committee, Audit Committee,
and Governance Committee. The Chair of the Board of Trustees shall
appoint members and committee chairs. The Board of Trustees may
establish other committees as needed and delegate to them such
responsibilities, as it deems appropriate.

Each committee is advisory to the Board and is not authorized to act on
behalf of the board. All committee meetings are open to the public and
have an opportunity for the public to comment.

The Chair of the Board shall be a nonvoting ex-officio member of each
committee of the board. The School Executive Director or a delegate may
attend any committee meeting but may not vote.

An absolute majority of board members on the committee shall constitute
a quorum for conducting business. An absolute majority of subcommittee
members shall constitute a quorum for conducting business. Each
committee and subcommittee shall keep public minutes of their work.

Each committee shall have administrative staff to serve as a liaison
between the committee and the office of the Executive Director.

The charges of the Board Committees are as follows:

## Audit Committee

The members of the audit committee, chaired by a member of the Board and
all others not being Board members, see that a financial audit of the
school is conducted by an independent auditor and accepts the audit from
the auditor on behalf of the Board. The committee shall have three
members. The committee presents the audit to the Executive Committee,
which sends it to the Board for its consideration.

## Finance Committee

The committee develops an annual budget, reviews monthly financial
reports, strive to develops a three-year budget projection, and
addresses the State's appropriation, financial curtailments , and
related financial issues. It sees that the Treasurer submits quarterly
financial statements to the Governor, the joint standing committee of
the Legislature having jurisdiction over education matters and the joint
standing committee of the Legislature having jurisdiction over
appropriations and financial affairs.

## Program Committee

The Program Committee connects the board to the core programmatic
functions of the School with the support of the school's deans of
Faculty and Residential Life. The committee is responsible for advising
the executive director on major program issues and for monitoring the
effectiveness in meeting program objectives.

## Executive Committee

The committee plans Board meetings, the patterns of meetings, and
determines their agendas. It also addresses time-sensitive issues, and
coordinates the work of the other committees. It may act with the
authority of the Board between Board meetings, but may not amend the
bylaws. It is responsible for the annual review of the Executive
Director.

The Executive Committee shall consist of the Chair of the Board of
Trustees, the Vice-Chair, the Clerk, and the Chairs of the other
standing committees. The Executive Committee shall meet as called by the
Chair and report all of its actions to the Board of Trustees. Minutes of
the Executive Committee shall be distributed promptly after each meeting
to the Board of Trustees.

## Governance Committee

The committee maintains oversight on school policies, board membership,
committee structure, bylaws, MSSM state statute, Board meeting review
and Board Member self-evaluation, New Board Member Orientation, and
other issues concerning board operations.

## Advancement Committee

The committee oversees the school's efforts to raise public awareness,
raise private and philanthropic funds, and manage enrollment. It
encourages relationships with internal and external partners, including
the MSSM Foundation, to advance these goals.

**Section 104. The Executive Director of the School.** The Executive
Director shall be the administrator and executive head of the School,
subject to the policies, rules, and regulations of the Board of
Trustees, and he/she shall be responsible for carrying out all policies,
rules and regulations of the Board of Trustees. The Executive Director
shall bring such matters to the attention of the Board of Trustees as
are appropriate to keep the Board fully informed to meet its
policy-making and regulatory responsibilities.
