---
title: Meetings
---

**Section 201. Regular Meetings.** (20-A MRSA §8204) There shall be at
least four regular meetings of the Board of Trustees each year. These
meetings shall be held on the second Saturday in October, December,
March, and May unless otherwise determined by the Board.

A notice specifying the time and place of each regular meeting of the
Board shall be transmitted by the Clerk to each member of the Board at
least ten days in advance of the regular meeting date. Any matter of
business may be considered at a regular meeting of the Board.

Whenever an appointed member of the Board shall fail for any reason
other than ill health, excused absence, or service in the interest of
the nation or state, to be present at three successive regular meetings
of the Board, the Board may recommend that the Governor deem their
position vacant and appoint a replacement. The Chair of the Board shall
be the officer who grants approval of requests for excused absences.

Members of the Board of Trustees are compensated for expenses pursuant
to **Title 5, section 12004-C, subsection 6.**

**Section 202. Special Meetings.** The Chair may request, in writing, a
special meeting of the Board of Trustees and, upon the concurrence of
not fewer than six voting members of the Board, the clerk shall call
such a special meeting. A notice specifying the time and place of the
special meeting of the Board shall be transmitted by the clerk to each
member of the Board at least ten days in advance of the meeting date. If
in the opinion of the Chair an expedited meeting is necessary, then
three days' notice by telephone, or other electronic means shall be
sufficient. Any matter of business may be considered at a special
meeting of the Board.

In the case of special meetings, the notice shall state the purpose of
the meeting, and no business shall be transacted at such meeting that
does not relate to the purpose stated.

**Section 203. Conduct of Business.** (20-A MRSA §8204) A quorum for the
transaction of business is constituted by the attendance of 1/3 of all
voting members (17 x .33 = 6) and all official actions of the Board
requires a majority vote of those members present and voting. If at any
time there are two concurrent meetings that hold a quorum the meeting
with the ranking officer (Chair vs. Vice-Chair) shall be the official
board meeting.

The Chair shall preside over all regular and special meetings of the
Board of Trustees, except that, in the absence of the Chair, the
Vice-Chair shall preside. In the absence of both the Chair and
Vice-Chair a presiding officer shall be elected by a majority from the
membership of the Board of Trustees in attendance.

All voting members of the Board of Trustees may vote on all matters
coming before the Board for consideration. The student member may not
vote in a public proceeding on any matter that was discussed or
considered during an executive session. No member may vote by proxy.

Any member may participate, in any meeting by visual and/or audio
teleconferencing provided the equipment used permits the distance member
to hear all discussions, and to be heard by everyone present including
members present by teleconference from other locations.

Any meeting at which part, of the members participate by teleconference
means shall be subject to state law concerning public access to such
meetings and applicable "Right to Know" law.

Except as modified by specific rules and regulations adopted by the
Board of Trustees, the most recently revised edition of Robert's Rule of
Order shall constitute the rules of the parliamentary procedure
applicable to all meetings of the Board of Trustees.

**Section 204. Open and Executive Session.** All meetings of the Board
and its committees shall be open to the public; however, the Board
reserves the right to convene in executive session on a recorded vote of
3/5 of the members present and voting for a designated purpose. The
student member may not participate as a board member in executive
sessions and may not vote in a public proceeding on any matter that was
discussed or considered during an executive session. Nothing in this
section shall be used to defeat the "Right to Know" law.

**Section 205. Conflict of Interest.** Every Board of Trustees member,
and every member of a committee established by the Board of Trustees,
shall avoid conflicts of interest by disclosure or by abstention.

**Section 206. Honorary Trustee.** The Board of Trustees may from time
to time honor a retiring trustee or other citizen who has provided
exceptionally distinguished service with the title of Honorary Trustee.

Nominations for the title of honorary trustee will be brought to the
Board for its approval by the Governance committee. The committee will
consider such criteria as length of service on the board and/or service
which is particularly significant in promoting the well-being of the
School.

An Honorary Trustee may attend all regular board meetings, but may not
vote on any motion or other actions and shall not be counted for quorum
purposes. An Honorary Trustee may not attend executive sessions unless
invited because of some particular experience or expertise pertinent to
the matters to be discussed in the executive session.

There are no fixed terms nor any attendance requirements nor any
entitlement to compensation or reimbursement for expenses for Honorary
Trustees.
