---
code: EGAD
title: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
---

I.  **Policy Overview and Definitions**

    This policy addresses the ownership of Intellectual Property (IP)
    for works developed or created by members of the Maine School of
    Science and Mathematics (MSSM) community, including faculty, staff,
    and students, and the circumstances and processes under which
    agreements and determinations of ownership are reached. The policy
    applies to Intellectual Property developed or created by members of
    the School community or with School resources.

    Scholarly work created by faculty or students is IP and is normally
    owned by the creator(s). Scholarly work is defined broadly to
    include pedagogical, literary, scientific, and other creative work
    developed by faculty members and/or students or staff members acting
    outside the scope of their employment. This includes (1) work
    related to scholarship, such as books, journal articles, inventions,
    advances, discoveries, software, creative works, artistic works in
    any medium including, but not limited to, musical composition,
    choreography, visual art, scriptwriting, videos and photographs,
    and (2) work related to teaching, such as textbooks, lecture notes
    and other course notes whether in summary or verbatim form, whether
    privately held by the faculty member or distributed to the class,
    whether paper or electronic, problem sets, syllabi, training
    materials, and Web sites for classes. This means that the vast
    majority of scholarly work generated by faculty and/or students is
    IP that is owned exclusively by the creator(s). Exceptions may arise
    in circumstances involving identity interest, functional interest,
    or exceptional use of School resources, as described below. IP
    created by School staff within the scope or course of their
    employment, on the other hand, is owned by the School.

    MSSM has an ownership interest in IP if it involves (i) an identity
    interest, (ii) a functional interest, or (iii) exceptional use of
    School resources.

    i.  The School has an "*identity interest*" in works that are
        integral to, and reflect more directly on, the identity of the
        School than on the identity of the individual(s) who create
        them. For example, the School has an identity interest in items
        disseminated by and for the School, such as various School
        catalogs, institutional Web pages, alumni bulletins, admissions
        brochures, and fundraising materials. An identity interest also
        occurs when there is a prominent use of the School's name, or of
        any image, trademark or logo of the School (See the School's Web
        policy). Simply identifying the author of a work as an MSSM
        instructor would not be considered prominent use of the School's
        name. Faculty members who intend to utilize the School's
        identity in creating IP must discuss ownership of the product as
        early as possible in the product's development with the
        Executive Director. Determination of ownership must be reached
        prior to its distribution.

    ii. The School has a "*functional interest*" in works that are used
        to enhance the effective functioning and coordination of ongoing
        operations of the School, or in which the School has a
        contractual or legal obligation. For example, the School has a
        functional interest in administrative and personnel procedures,
        including software, and internal handbooks, and reports. The
        School has a functional interest in IP created with federal or
        other outside funds which carry an obligation that the School
        retain certain IP rights or assign them to another party outside
        the School. Certain collaborative agreements also require the
        School to negotiate IP rights with other entities, creating a
        functional interest. If the School has a functional interest,
        the IP is owned by the School.

    iii. "*Exceptional use of School resources*" for faculty and/or
         student work means that the School has provided funding,
         facilities, or staff support of a degree or nature not
         typically made available. Ordinary use of desktop computers or
         the School library, routine support from the School's staff, or
         use of School office space does not constitute exceptional use
         of School resources. In addition, the School's provision of
         standard labs and studios, funding of sabbatical leaves, and
         funding provided to support scholarly work (e.g., start-up
         funds and annual faculty development grants) are typically not
         considered to be exceptional use of School resources. In the
         instance that a faculty member expects to be provided, or the
         School expects to provide, exceptional and atypical support, a
         contractual agreement or formal determination should be reached
         in advance of such funding and allocation of resources, fixing
         the extent, if any, of School ownership of IP that may result
         from the work (See Section III of this Policy).

II. **Policy for Faculty, Staff, and Students**

    A.  Faculty

        Scholarly works created by members of the faculty and all the
        intellectual property rights associated with them remain with
        the creator(s) unless the School has an identity or functional
        interest or the work is created by, with, or through exceptional
        use of School resources. If there is an identity or functional
        interest, the School owns the rights to the IP. For instance,
        the School has a functional interest in faculty administrative
        work, such as committee reports and departmental or
        institutional records. When faculty members contribute to School
        publications, the work is owned by the School because of the
        identity and functional interest in the work.

        While the IP ownership of work related to teaching and scholarly
        activities rests with the faculty member, the School has a
        functional interest in its ongoing instructional operations. By
        teaching at the School, faculty members grant a non-exclusive
        perpetual license to the School to use and modify curricular and
        instructional materials they develop at the School.

        The School may have an ownership interest in common with the
        creator(s) in faculty work that involves exceptional use of
        School resources, including substantial use of other School
        employees. The ownership, use, and development of such IP will
        be governed by mutual agreement between the creator(s) and the
        School, or if an agreement cannot be reached between the
        creator(s) and the School, by a determination made under the
        procedures of Section III of this Policy.

        Faculty members are expected to acknowledge assistance or
        co-authorship when appropriate.

    B.  Staff

        The legal principle embodied in copyright law known as "work
        made for hire" provides that all work created by employees
        within the scope or course of their employment belongs to the
        employer. The School has both functional and identity interests
        in IP developed by staff members, and could not function if it
        had to negotiate the right to use work produced by individual
        staff members. Following standard and typical employment
        practice, the School owns all IP developed by staff members
        within the scope or course of their employment. If an individual
        is hired as both a member of the staff and the faculty, the
        determination of IP rights depends upon the relation of the IP
        to the scope of employment of each job. IP that is created by
        members of the staff outside the scope or course of their
        employment is the property of the staff member.

        Staff members must discuss with their supervisor, in advance,
        any situations in which they intend to claim ownership of any IP
        that could be construed as being within the scope or course of
        their employment. The ownership, use, and development of such IP
        will be governed by mutual agreement between the creator(s) and
        the School, or if an agreement cannot be reached between the
        creator(s) and the School, by a determination made under the
        procedures of Section III of this Policy.

        When IP is created by staff members working directly with
        members of the faculty or with students, the School has an
        interest in the IP. For example, when a programmer in Computer
        Science develops software in collaboration with or at the
        request of a faculty member, the School owns the software
        written by the staff member.

        Staff members are expected to acknowledge assistance or
        co-authorship when appropriate.

    C.  Students

        Scholarly works generated by students in their capacity as
        students are owned by the students who created them. In
        addition, the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act gives
        students certain privacy rights over personally identifiable
        information possessed by the School. Course-related materials,
        assignments, and other similar materials in students' possession
        may also include IP of faculty members. Students who consider
        distributing such materials to others should be aware that they
        may not have property rights to all the materials in their
        possession, such as course syllabi, copies of lectures, or other
        IP of faculty members.

        Students who are employed by the School are subject to IP
        policies for staff (see Section II.B.)

        Students are expected to acknowledge assistance or co-authorship
        when appropriate.

    D.  Grants, Sponsored Works, and Specially Funded Works.

        Many grants and contracts from government agencies or private
        sponsors contain provisions governing intellectual property
        and/or other rights to the property which obligate the grantee
        (the School) in some way. In such cases, the School has a
        functional interest in the IP and owns all relevant property
        rights associated with the IP. The School will assure that IP
        restrictions are accounted for in grant application and
        administrative processes associated with it. Principal
        investigators are required to comply with any such restrictions,
        including reporting requirements. Policy DD - GRANTS must be
        consulted in advance of any grant application regarding such
        restrictions (see Section III.A).

III. **Process for Determination of Ownership of Intellectual Property**

     In the vast majority of cases, application of the foregoing
     principles will be straightforward and there will be no question
     about who owns the rights to the IP. In such cases, the party with
     rights (a faculty member, staff member, student, or the School)
     will decide the uses of the IP and will receive any income
     associated with it. All questions about whether a project involves
     exceptional use of School resources, or whether a functional or
     identity interest of the School may exist should be referred to the
     Executive Director. The Executive Director in consultation with the
     creator(s) and appropriate School administrators will endeavor to
     reach an agreement with the creator(s) regarding the ownership,
     use, and development of the IP. Agreements will be deposited in the
     employee's or student's file according to the procedures
     established in Section VI.D. If no agreement is reached, the
     Executive Director will make a determination (See Section III.B).

     A.  Reporting.

         The uniform application of this Policy requires that the School
         be made aware of IP created by members of the School community
         with the use of School resources. Responsibility for reporting
         the creation of IP rests with the creator(s). The Executive
         Director/designee will develop a procedure that will facilitate
         such reporting.

         In cases where the IP is a scholarly work created by a faculty
         member or staff member outside the scope of his or her
         employment and no identity or functional interest is involved,
         no reporting is required. Routine professional activities
         reports would suffice and are typically submitted after the
         fact. Scholarly work created by students in their capacity as
         students need not be reported. Certain cases must be addressed
         specifically to the Executive Director. Creator(s) should
         report, as soon as the situation is reasonably clear and before
         work is well underway, on the production or planned production
         of any IP that meets one or more of the following conditions:

         1.  The IP involves or has the potential for involving a
             functional or identity interest of the School.

         2.  Production of the IP involves or may involve exceptional
             use of School resources.

         3.  The IP is produced with Federal or other outside funds
             which impose ownership, reporting or other requirements on
             the School or the creator(s). In such cases, reporting may
             be required within specified time limits, which must be
             observed.

         4.  The IP is jointly created by faculty and staff.

         5.  The IP is created in a collaborative relationship with
             another entity requiring that entity's IP interests be
             reconciled with those of the School.

         6.  A creator intends to seek a patent on or otherwise
             commercialize the IP, in which case, the process of
             protection or commercialization may involve substantial
             cost and effort, and the creator(s) may wish the School to
             consider providing some or all of that support and share
             the net rewards, liabilities, or risks with the School.

         7.  The creator is a staff member who intends to claim
             ownership of IP that could be construed as being within the
             scope or course of employment at the School.

         8.  A creator has any question about ownership or other rights
             in the IP.

         In the case of a group IP project, all those in the group shall
         be named in the report and if the report contains an initial
         proposal for the disposition of rights and proceeds, all
         members of the group shall sign.

     B.  Determination process.

         When a report is required under Section III.A. and no agreement
         with the creator(s) is reached, the Executive Director, in
         consultation with the creator(s) and appropriate
         administrators, shall make a determination whether the IP
         involves a functional or identity interest; whether its
         creation involves exceptional use of School resources; or
         whether the work is created within the scope or course of
         employment of a staff member at the School. The Executive
         Director shall make a determination of ownership of the IP and
         associated intellectual property rights, responsibilities, and
         use rights of the School and the creator(s), and, if
         appropriate, how the School will recoup its costs and share in
         financial gains from the IP. This determination shall be made
         in a timely manner. In all cases, the Executive Director will
         be guided by the principles set forth in this policy and the
         creator(s) will be given an opportunity to explain the
         situation or proposal and recommend terms for ownership,
         responsibilities, use rights, risks, and financial
         arrangements.

     C.  Written Determination

         The Executive Director's determination shall be made in writing
         and signed by the Executive Director. The determination shall
         contain provisions outlining the allocation of ownership,
         interests, use rights, responsibilities, risks, and a mechanism
         for the sharing of net proceeds, if any, and other rights
         between the creator(s) and the School. The Executive Director
         will cause the written determination, once made, to be
         delivered promptly to the creator(s). The determination,
         bearing the date on which it was delivered to the creator(s),
         shall be filed with and maintained in the Business Office of
         the School. The determination shall become final and shall be
         binding on the creator(s) and the School unless, within
         thirty (30) days of the date on which the Executive Director
         has delivered the determination to the creator(s), the
         creator(s) file a notice of appeal of the Executive Director's
         determination with the Executive Director.

     D.  Appeals

         On receipt of a notice of appeal, an ad hoc committee of MSSM
         faculty or staff members shall be formed by a board member
         appointed by the chair of the Board of Trustees, not including
         the Executive Director, faculty representative, or student
         representative. The ad hoc committee shall be comprised of one
         individual selected by the Executive Director, one individual
         selected by the creator(s), and the appointed board member. The
         committee shall review the Executive Director's determination,
         the position of the Executive Director and the creator(s), and
         the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the IP, and
         will make a written recommendation to the Board of Trustees not
         later than sixty (60) days following the date of receipt of the
         notice of appeal. The Board of Trustees, after review of the
         recommendation of the ad hoc committee, shall issue a
         determination within thirty (30) days of receipt of the ad hoc
         committee recommendation. The Board of Trustees' determination
         will be filed with the Business Office of the School and a copy
         will be delivered to the creator(s). This determination of the
         Board of Trustees will be final and will be binding upon the
         School and the creator(s).

     E.  Time

         The Board of Trustees, on application by either the Executive
         Director or the creator(s) or on the Board of Trustees'
         independent initiative, shall have the authority to modify the
         time requirements of this Section III for good cause.

     F.  Executive Director as Creator

         In the event that the Executive Director is a creator or
         co-creator of IP as to which no agreement has been reached and
         which requires a determination under this Section III, the
         process described in subsections A, B, C, D, and E of this
         Section III shall not apply as to that IP. The determination
         shall instead be made by the Chair of the Board of Trustees of
         the School. The Chair's determination, when ratified by
         majority vote of the Board of Trustees, shall be final and
         shall be binding upon the creator(s) and the School.

IV. **Transfer of Rights to the School:**

    The School anticipates that even when IP is clearly the property of
    individuals, those individuals may wish to transfer rights to the
    School in exchange for help in developing; disseminating; or
    protecting their creations.

    Requests by members of the School community for such an exchange
    will be addressed on a case-by-case basis.

    As stated in II.A., faculty members grant a non-exclusive perpetual
    license to the School to use and modify curricular and instructional
    materials developed at the School.

V.  **Time Spent on IP Production Not for the School:**

    IP developed by students, faculty, and staff members without the use
    of School resources or outside the scope or course of employment at
    the School is not governed by this Policy, unless it involves an
    identity interest of the School. For instance, a report provided to
    another organization in a consulting role is IP created through
    outside employment. Faculty members should be guided in accepting
    any outside employment by the Faculty Handbook. Staff members should
    be guided by MSSM policies on conflict of interest and outside
    employment as outlined in the Employee Handbook.

VI. **Application of this Policy, Effective Date, Registry of
    Agreements, and Determinations.**

    A.  Faculty and School Staff

        This Intellectual Property Policy applies to and is binding upon
        members of the faculty and upon members of the School staff by
        reason of their employment at Maine School of Science and
        Mathematics (MSSM).

        Unless otherwise provided in writing, the terms, conditions, and
        provisions of this Intellectual Property Policy shall be deemed
        to survive termination of employment and shall continue to apply
        to any IP created, in whole or in part, by a member of the
        faculty or a member of the School staff while employed by the
        School. As used in this policy, the term "faculty" shall mean
        full-time and adjunct instructors of the School, and the term
        "School staff" shall mean the administrators and all non-faculty
        employees of the School.

    B.  Students

        This Intellectual Property Policy applies to and is binding upon
        students as an element of the contract between the student and
        MSSM. Unless otherwise provided in writing, the terms;
        conditions; and provisions of this Intellectual Property Policy
        shall be deemed to survive the student's graduation or other
        termination of the contract between the student and MSSM and
        shall apply to any IP created, in whole or in part, by a student
        while enrolled at the School.

    C.  Effective Date

        This Intellectual Property Policy shall become effective upon
        adoption by the Board of Trustees. This policy shall apply to IP
        created, in whole or in part, by members of the Faculty, members
        of the School staff, and students on or after the date of
        adoption by the Board of Trustees.

    D.  Registry of Agreements and Determinations

        The Business Office of the School shall maintain a registry of
        all agreements and final determinations pertaining to
        Intellectual Property to which this Policy applies. All
        agreements between the creator(s) and the School pertaining to
        ownership, rights, duties, and obligations of each IP to which
        this Policy applies and all final determinations made pursuant
        to Section III of this Policy shall be deposited in said
        registry and retained by the Business Office.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: May 26, 2015
| 1^st^ Reading: May 31, 2015
| 2^nd^ Reading: December 5, 2015
