---
code: BBAB
title: SCHOOL BOARD SELF-EVALUATION
---

The Board is accountable to the citizens of Maine for the education of
its children and the stewardship of the School resources. The Board
recognizes that in order to be most effective in its governance role, it
should continuously monitor and evaluate its own performance, processes,
and practices. The Board believes that periodic self-evaluation is
essential to improved leadership, support of student achievement, and
the attainment of the School vision and goals.

The Board will annually conduct a self-evaluation at a scheduled time
and place. The Board encourages all of its members to attend. No other
Board business will be taken up at this session. Consistent with the
Freedom of Access Act, the Board's self-evaluation will be held in open
session. The Executive Director is expected to participate in the
process.

During self-evaluation, the Board will evaluate itself as a whole. The
self-evaluation should emphasize areas of strength as well as those
identified for improvement. Board members are encouraged to use the
evaluation process as an opportunity to assess their own personal
performance.

The Board will determine the areas of competence and/or Board
responsibilities and relationships that will be used as the basis for
the self-evaluation. The Board will select an evaluation method or
instrument that will include a reasonable number of criteria or
performance indicators by which to appraise the Board's functioning and
effectiveness. The Board may also identify specific topics for
discussion that are related to its meeting processes, communications,
Board-Executive Director relations, and "boardsmanship" skills.

The Board may seek the assistance of the Executive Director in
identifying standards for assessment and topics for discussion and/or in
selecting an evaluation method or instrument that meets its needs.

If a self-evaluation instrument/form is used, a composite profile of
responses may be tabulated to provide a more detailed analysis of Board
performance. As no single instrument or form may encompass all of the
Board's responsibility or sufficiently address the relationship between
responsibilities, the Board need not limit itself to those items that
appear on the instrument or form, but should use it as means of
structuring and stimulating Board discussion.

A different method or instrument may be used from year to year, but must
be agreed upon by a majority of the Board.

The areas of Board responsibility and relationships that may be
appropriate to consider during the self-evaluation may include but are
not limited to:

A.  The Board "visioning," strategic planning, and long-range planning
    skills and processes;

B.  The Board's meeting management, conduct, and decision-making
    processes;

C.  Policy development and implementation;

D.  Fiscal oversight and resource allocation;

E.  Oversight of curriculum and instruction;

F.  Monitoring of student achievement;

G.  Board subcommittee structure, responsibilities, and processes;

H.  Board member development;

I.  New Board member orientation;

J.  Board- Executive Director relations;

K.  Board- constituent relations and communications;

L.  Board relations with the media;

M.  Board legislative involvement and advocacy; and

N.  Board-Foundation relations and communications.

Following a discussion of the evaluation results the Board will
establish priorities and objectives for the following year's
self-evaluation. The Board may, as desired, schedule interim
self-evaluation sessions to assess progress toward achieving identified
priorities and objectives.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: October 24, 2013
| 1^st^ Reading: December 7, 2013
| 2^nd^ Reading: March 15, 2014
