---
code: BCC
title: NEPOTISM
---

It shall be the policy of the Maine School of Science and Mathematics
Board not to employ as School staff any person who is a member of the
immediate family of a Board member or of the Superintendent.

Immediate family of Board members or the Superintendent who are employed
by the School on the date of adoption of this policy are not affected by
this paragraph.

By Maine law (20-A M.R.S.A. ยง 1002(2)), a Board member's spouse is
precluded from employment under any circumstances in any public School
within the jurisdiction of the Board to which the member is elected.

## Supervision and Evaluation

No person shall be employed in or assigned to a position that is within
the administrative supervision of a member of his/her immediate family,
nor in a position in which he/she is supervised or evaluated, in whole
or in part, by a member of his/her immediate family.

## Exceptions

In extraordinary circumstances, the Board may approve an exception to
the prohibitions on the employment of immediate family so long as the
candidate is qualified for the position to which he/she has applied, the
hiring is in the best interest of the School and its students, and the
candidate is not the spouse of a Board member.

## Volunteers

Under Maine law (20-A M.R.S.A. ยง 1002(2-A)), a board member's spouse may
not serve as a volunteer when that volunteer has primary responsibility
for a curricular, co-curricular, or extracurricular program or activity
and reports directly to the Superintendent, Principal, Athletic
Director, or other School administrator within the jurisdiction of the
Board.

## Definitions

For the purpose of this policy:

A.  "Immediate family" means spouse, brother, sister, parent, son, or
    daughter.

B.  "Administrative supervision" refers to the authority of a person in
    the position of Director or higher.

Legal Reference:

-   20-A M.R.S.A. ยง 1002

Cross Reference:

-   BCB - Board Member Conflict of Interest

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Implemented: March 16, 2012
| 1^st^ Reading: March 17, 2012
| Adopted: September 8, 2012
