---
code: BG
title: BOARD POLICY
---

The Maine School of Science and Mathematics (MSSM) Board of Trustees
considers policy development its most important governance function. It
is the intent of the Board to develop written policies that will serve
as the foundation for the successful and efficient operation of MSSM.

The Board accepts the definition of policy set forth by the National
School Boards Association:

School Board policies are statements that set forth the purposes and
prescribe in general terms the organization and program of a school
system. They create a framework within which the \[Executive Director\]
and the staff can discharge their assigned duties with positive
direction. They tell what is wanted. They may also indicate why and how
much. Policies should define clearly the goals and objectives of the
school system, allow for the flexibility that is vital in day-to-day
operations, reflect the board's vision, define roles and
responsibilities (who is supposed to do what), and include measurable
outcomes. \[NOTE: The source for this definition is NSBA's publication,
Becoming a Better Board Member, 3rd edition (2006).\]

The Board's policies are framed and meant to be interpreted in terms of
federal laws and regulations, state statutes and the rules of the Maine
Department of Education, State Board of Education, and other regulatory
agencies at various levels of government. The Board's policies are also
intended to reflect the Board's educational philosophy and instructional
objectives and practices and procedures that are supported by research
and generally accepted by leaders and authorities in the field of public
education.

It is the Board's intent that its policies set goals and provide
direction and guidance for administrators, staff, and students and serve
as sources of information for parents, community members and others who
are interested in or connected with the schools.

The Board regards policy development and review as an ongoing process.
The need for a new policy or revision or deletion of an existing policy
may arise from a change in law and/or regulations, modification of the
school unit's vision or goals, educational research or trends, the
occurrence of a significant incident or a recommendation or request from

Board members, school administrators, staff, parents, students or other
interested persons.

Adoption of new or revised policies and repeal of existing policies is
solely the responsibility of the Board. Policies will be adopted,
amended or repealed only by the affirmative vote of a majority of
members present and voting.

Policies shall become effective upon Board adoption or at a future date
designated by the Board at the time of adoption.

The Executive Director/designee will be responsible for distributing new
or revised policies to Board members and for making policies accessible
to school personnel, students and the public.

Legal Reference:

-   20-A MRSA ยง1001 (1) (A)

Cross Reference:

-   BG-R - Policy Adoption Procedure

------------------------------------------------------------------------

| Adopted: March 7, 2020
| Revisions:
| Reviewed:
